Description

Back at Elsinore, Hamlet tells Horatio that he swapped the letter meant to kill him and that instead Rosencrantz and Guildenstern will be killed for their betrayal and siding with Claudius. Then, a courtier named Osric enters and tells Hamlet that Laertes wishes to duel him, and starts singing Laertes's praises. Horatio tries to encourage Hamlet not to fight in the duel, but Hamlet decides to anyway. 
They are summoned to court for the duel. Hamlet and Laertes hash things out, and while Laertes says he won't forgive him fully, he'll at least accept his apology. The two men recieve the swords they are to use for the duel, and Claudius says if Hamlet gets the first or second hit, he will drink to Hamlet's health and then offer a cup to Hamlet. (which will actually contain poison) Hamlet gets the first strike in, but refuses to drink from the cup. Then when he hits Laertes again, Gertrude gets up to drink from the cup, even though Claudius tries to warn her not to.. But it is too late. She's already done it.
Before they fight another round, Laertes muses if he should lay down his sword, but decides not to, and on the third one, Laertes manages to cut Hamlet with the poisoned blade. But as they continue to fight, their swords accidentally get mixed up and Hamlet ends up cutting and thus poisoning Laertes. Queen Gertrude proclaims the wine was poisoned and dies, just as Laertes admits the sword was also poisoned, and that is was Claudius's idea for both. Laertes dies too, but not before saying he forgives Hamlet. Hamlet then takes up the poisoned sword and at last, kills his uncle by running Claudius through with the blade and forcing him to drink the last of the poison that killed his wife.
As Fortinbras arrives at the castle, Hamlet clings to Horatio, asking his friend not to die by suicide, but to live on and tell the story of what happened there. He also asks the Fortinbras be made the new king of Denmark. Horatio vows to tell his story, just as Fortinbras enters and asks that Hamlet be given a soldier's send off. 